today we're going for the world record
and what is the world record it's 501 kg
but how much did th weigh when he did it
205 kg so I weigh about 95 so if we did
it pound for pound what's that 230 236
if you want to go for the
pound-for-pound thing which no one
really does but that's still not the
world record it's kind of the world
record 51 kg divided by 2011 205 205
that's 2.4 kg for every kilogram he
weighs so we want 2.4 4 *
96 234 234 kg is the world record well
you have to beat that that's equaling
the world record so you'll need 235 235
and I'll be World's Strongest Man when
was the last time your deadlifted 3
months okay so to break a world record
there's a lot that goes behind it uh but
let's just start with the warm up so
there's lots of different ways of
warming up something that we like to do
is the exact movement that you're going
to be doing unloaded and then gradually
just add weight I know how strong you
are so the first weight you're going to
do is just going to be one of these blue
plates so just pump out 10 reps just get
a little bit of blood in what I like to
see is the bars in contact with your
shins from start to finish it up through
the parts yeah let's see give me five
reps we'll do a couple of sets on this
way stand up a little bit faster so the
way that I like to say is stand with
intent so I love control but at the same
time on the up phase don't be too
controlled don't be too polite we'll do
another set on that when you're standing
there lock your knees out hard so when
you're finishing it's a very common
thing is soft knees you don't see it
that much but what happens is you start
leaning back slightly so if you lock
your knees your hips will come through
straighter and you'll be more vertical
at the end point lock the knees hard
yeah that's nice and tidy next thing
crown of the head to the ceiling so
you're looking down a lot of people say
you know neutral spine so so you know
straight back that's neutral spine and
this is the kind of movement what I like
to do is go crown of the head to the
ceiling so what that does is influences
your upper back position so reach up
slightly face my foot so not just with
your eyes with your whole face from
start to
finish good we're going to think about
one more thing and that's taking the
slack out of the bar okay so right now
when you're lifting it off the ground
your arms are a little bit loose and
when you lift it I can hear it going
thump every single time so what you want
to do is stretch so there's a few cues
that I used for this starting with your
feet barbell over your midfoot so when I
said start with The Shins on the bar you
don't want to be too close so you give
yourself room so that when you bend over
and grab the bar The Shins will then
touch the bar then it's in contact from
start to finish right from here long
arms and head to the ceiling so you
pulling your arms down that way and your
head up that way listen to
this I can hear it coming off the ground
so what I want is arms long head to
ceiling okay so now I'm
stretching there's no noise okay so arms
long head to ceiling that's taking the
slack out okay that's what I want you to
do next the arms aren't relaxed they are
long pointing as close to the ground as
possible and head to the ceiling no
noise okay that was l
James good yeah real nice lock those
knees
hard yeah quite hard it's it's hard
concentrating on all the different
there's a lot going on and I like to
talk a lot when we've got not much
weight on the bar because I'm not going
to talk at all when we go heavy you got
two options now so with 60 kg you'll be
able to hold on to that bar fine but the
weight that you want to lift which is
world record right you won't be able to
you got two options straps the world
record was done with straps okay so
that's legal or you can do mix grip if
you want to hold on to that with your
bare hands let's go mix grip with chalk
until maybe one and a half body weight
I'll bring the straps in done let's put
this all together I'm still going to be
talking a lot about the cues because
it's still lightweight for you okay so
shins about an inch away now arms long
and relaxed head to the ceiling remember
where your eyes are good stretch your
arms big breath and
push good little bit of a click there
okay so stretch
harder so reach your head to the ceiling
and push nice just give me one more
stretch those arms head to ceiling and
push yeah best one good job we're going
to do that weight again and then there's
going to be one more cue that I'm going
to introduce to you big argument in the
deadlifting community about dropping the
weight some would say the deadlift is
one of the kind of Standalone exercises
not all of them where you do the
concentric first and the Ecentric you do
the working then the resting yeah is it
imperative that people lower the weight
or is the weight complete when they
stand up the the way that I like to
teach the deadlift is minus the down
phase so it's the concentric portion of
the movement and then it's essentially a
controlled drop on the way down there's
other exercises where we focus on the
lowering phase and some gyms like
commercial gyms won't allow you to drop
it like that so that's when if you if
you're training that way everyone's
going to look at you and think you're a
douchebag but here this is a strength
gym these floors are concrete they're
made for dumping the weights and so are
these plates so from a safety standpoint
I think that the best way to learn how
to deadlift is the concentric portion
and the down phase is a controlled drop
and I think that a lot of people really
mess up the down phase so that's that's
a lot more of a complex technique
actually so for today I don't care about
the down phase three again okay so let's
go three again there's one more CU one
sec James lat engagement okay so what's
going to happen is as it gets heavier we
want to make sure that this weight
doesn't drift away from our body the
lats one of the biggest muscles of your
back we need that muscle on to support
your torso the next thing keeping it on
your center of mass if the bar drifts
away from your Center of mass we're at a
big disadvantage okay so think about
that from now is arms long head to
ceiling and pull into your body is it
harder to extend your shoulder with a
supered wrist Yes actually a lot of
people get shoulder pain in the supern
hand because they're not doing it well
okay but when you develop the habit of
doing it from the start you you you
won't have a problem okay so arms long
head to ceiling pull the bar into your
shins stand yeah two more only
arms long pull the bar in head to
ceiling push yeah one
more arms long pull the bar in
excellent feels good looks good it feels
like there's a lot going on so I like to
take my time so it's like lots of sets
lots of reps on the really lightweight
and then we're going to go one one one
one one up until the top weight well
that's how Thor did it as well for the
world record so since you're doing a
very similar feet of strength we'll
treat you the same way uh identify as a
woman I think that the best the women's
record is about 290 kg bare hands that's
in
powerlifting she's heavier than you oh
that's that must be why then and I think
she has more testosterone than you as
well yeah that could also be one F
straps cheers thanks I think I prefer
these over the yeah so they both have
their pros and cons but I think if your
goal is LIF the heaviest weight I'd say
figure RS are the best do you need to
wrap thumbs no using fig eight no take a
big breath pull the bar into your body
squeeze it up yes good just one just one
just one I might get you to do that
again cool okay before we go up to three
plates amazing the biggest mistake is
people work too too low too low and too
tight going too tight can interfere with
your Technique what I like to say with
this is It's kind of relaxed if you take
a big breath and push your guts into it
that's your brace so that's not moving
anymore now relax relax relax see how
that's quite loose okay that's probably
the the perfect tightness for you okay
so we're just going to do one rep again
we're going to get everything perfect
what I like to do with your stance which
you're doing very well but for the
viewers at home hip width stance is
perfect hands just on the outside of
that sit into position so The Shins are
on the bar head to ceiling pull the bar
in squeeze it
up oh yeah real nice I already
noticeably more comfortable with the
belt man it looks really nice and like I
didn't I didn't feel like a discomfort
before but my back I could just feel
there was something moving in the lower
back and I knew that would have
something to do with bracing the core
eyes up
slightly arms long and stretched massive
breath push with your legs oh yeah man
real
nice and um this is solid man it's nice
feels good yeah got a bit of cramp in my
uh left toe but that's right same thing
stretch Drive
okay nice
rp7 I would say there's definitely more
in the tank it looks like 200s there as
well go 200 not right now cool we got
180 next so that's 160 160 so there's a
few little things that happened that we
got to fix and I'm thinking that there's
no huge rush because we're only doing
singles I'll get you to do that again
okay okay so the things that I want you
to think about butt shooting up okay and
also uh the knees coming in so the cues
that I give you is to keep the hips open
and push gently outwards okay so the
gentle push outwards stops them from
coming in and when people's knees come
in it's because they've forgotten to use
their leg drive so the bum shoots up in
the air and you're using your very
strong back so it's it's good that you
got a strong back but I want you to use
your strong back and your strong legs
okay more of a leg press through the
absolutely when you lock yourself in
position here don't think about pulling
the bar up think about pushing the world
down okay so your torso locked in
position I rigid braced so let's get the
stance okay now gently push the knees
outwards against the inside of your long
and relaxed arms okay now head to
ceiling massive breath push with your
legs push with your legs 10 times
better cool 10 times better yeah I think
before like I I didn't trust my leg
drive as much it was more well I think
it's also kind of going to autopilot
people have strong backs it's like what
are we doing we're picking something up
off the ground That's Heavy so so that
the Instinct it's not instinctive to leg
drive to push the wall down okay so that
one was Perfection now we go up do you
know what my favorite thing is you've
ever said to me I was deadlifting with
an over undergrip and I asked you about
bicep tears and you went don't worry
you're not strong enough that's the
reality a lot of people say they look at
it and they say you're going to tear
your bicep you're not strong enough not
yet I think that um once you get over
kg then it's a real concern but here
here's the fact of it I don't want you
to develop that habit leading up until
that weight I don't want you doing it
incorrectly up until you get to that
weight and then all of a sudden have to
change the technique just so you know
guys we're now heading into uh double
body weight territory I got to get my
technique right or he'll make me do it
again yeah it's true think of push not
pull okay push those knees out stretch
the [__] out of those arms head to
ceiling knees out and push and he's out
and push yeah real [__]
nice yeah man nice no shaking yet that
was clean that was clean no no no lawn
mower yet
no 200 there we'll go for it we'll go
for it world record not I don't know
about today maybe not today 200 kg now
yeah time to get serious let's get it
right first time take your time for this
setup long
arms think of that leg Drive massive
breath push push push push push push
push push push [__] yeah man oh
yeah man no fuss good job
no man no deadlifting for months come
back and pick up where you left off
that's I'm leaning more towards 205 than
210 yeah suck it up we're putting 210 on
and now you know you'll get it I know
you'll get it I think you can do a 205
but what's the 205 anyway you've just
done 200 210
then 2
that's it's not even a 10% increase yeah
that's that's uh that's going to look
ugly but it's there and this is where we
risk
injury right or what we can do is is
plant a seed build some building blocks
and then come back for the world record
on another
day 3 two
time okay okay just let's hit 205 so the
way that we get exactly 205 is the comp
clips these are 2.5 kg so when you add
those on top I don't know how much they
weigh but they don't count so it's a
waste okay okay so something that
happened on the last set at the top
you're here right and then it kind of
it's kind of like a bit of hitchy
movement so what you need to do is lock
lock cool so focus on [__] slamming
your knees locked right and then right
at the last part so it's the knees are
locked that pulls your body out of the
way so when your knees are soft and
you're sliding up your body it's
inefficient okay so get your knees out
of the way so lock hard flex your
[__] quads and then drive your hips
through bang bang okay you
ready let's do it let's do
it same thing get those knees out arms
long drive drive drive drive drive yeah
that's clean that's
clean BB brother nice work man cheers
y let's go I'll take you that that 210
would Thor you get to live another day
bro Thor you can rest another
day that that 210 would have been there
that 210 would have been there I think
we'll come back for that one I think
we'll come back that was good and their
Maxes and they [__] up their technique
and they say of course I [__] up
technique it was my absolute
Max that was good technique that was
like a robot and if it wasn't for the
good technique you probably wouldn't
have gotten it you know people say I got
a Brak technique lift the heavy weights
actually that's what the techniques
there for to help you lift the heavy
weights okay so now um Denny is going to
go
120 so that was just a smidge and over
two times body weight and if you want to
see considerably more than two times
body
weight what are the chances of someone
else looking to break Thor's record on
the same
[Laughter]
day hey Den I think five come on bro
do you have
chalk let go didn't he let go didn't he
is it this two two and a half body
weight nearly yeah almost well if we put
5 kilos on it's 2 and a half but if
you're doing it for five reps you're
smoking it either why don't we just go 5
Kil 2 and half kilos on D let me feel
this way oh let's go one rep let's go
one rep let's go d
g easy
easy if you go 2 and 1/2 on each side
that's 2 and2 half times body weight for
one yeah uh for five so then someone
today will be breaking Thor's record
yeah pretty much let's go
D easy
reps easy easy let's
go
beautiful let's go three
oh congratulations so two two and a half
times body weight yeah five reps though
thank you you got five two times body
weight for hypertrophy two and a half
two and a
half well ladies and gentlemen looks
like Thor Thor beon this is it Thor
bonson your title will remain yours for
another day thanks for
watching so how important really am I
rest periods between doing lifts is it
is it really that important it depends
on the quality of the session and what
you're trying to achieve if your goal is
to lift a heavy weight you want to be
recovered when you're not very strong it
doesn't take long to recover but when
you're lifting two times body weight and
plus you need longer rest so that you
can have a better quality session so if
your top weight was today 205 uh I would
say that optimal rest for a deadlift
it's a big exercise very fatiguing I
would say minimum of 5 minutes if you
want to be performing well Thor bonson
was resting about 20 minutes before top
sets uh when he went for the 51 kg but
there's a lot more muscle mass and
there's a lot more weight lifted as well
so it's proportionate to that so if we
waited 20 minutes you'd cool down uh but
if you're that strong and that big you
would need the 20 minutes perfect thank
you